last time we took a look at the stress
strain curve and idealized case and we
defined the tensile strength yield
strength
strain the fracture and the young's
modulus
so this time i just wanted to show you
uh three cases
of real data so this is some data taken
out of a book by
professor dowling so here we have the
tensile data on a 1020 steel
and you can see that
on the top plot here we've got again
this is steel so we're looking at
something like a 37 percent
strain and fracture
you can go ahead and get the tensile
strength on here so the
maximum stress value that the sample
sees
and then if we want to take a look at
the young's modulus and yield strength
we're going to need to expand this
region here
and that's we've got plotted down below
and now we can go ahead and we can pull
off the slope
here and we can get
you can see here 201 000
and that would be in units megapascals
so that means it's 201.2
gigapascals so that's our modulus
we can come over to the 0.002
offset right we just follow the same
slope
and where we intersect here
is our yield strength 264
megapascals
all right if we were to continue on in
this area
and we were to unload at some point
the unloading slope would follow
the elastic modulus okay so we would get
some
recovered strain so this strain here in
this little piece is a recovered strain
it's the elastic strain
and then the plastic strain would
correspond to the
the remainder the strain
um the plastic strain plus that
elastic strain i'll go ahead and keep
this is
sub e instead of recovered uh plastic
strain plus elastic strain
is the strain under load
okay so that would correspond to this
point the strain under load
and say equals here
all right so the other thing we can see
with the steel you can see that there's
also an upper yield point
and then it does drop off a bit this one
doesn't show that
kind of jagged or serrated yielding that
we saw in the other case
but you can see again that that it does
have this upper and lower yield point
and that our rule falls into this lower
yield point region
all right the actual data that came out
was a force that was applied
and there was also
the displacement of the sample
and that's already been turned into a
strain value for us
uh take a look now at an aluminum alloy
this is a
high-strength aluminum alloy used in
aircraft
and this one's plotted a little bit
different instead of having a separate
plot for the initial region
it includes both plots on one
and so you have to just be a little
careful at trying to read this one
so curve 2 here is the overall curve and
that uses the top axis
and so we can see that our
strain at fracture is about fifteen
point three percent and we were at about
thirty seven percent for the steel
now we're about fifteen point three
percent
and the tensile strength say is about
megapascals and then we can go ahead
and take a look at this
initial region
that's what's plotted here using the
bottom scale
so now we can pull off the elastic
modulus
nice and easy on this one and you can
see here this 415 over .0065
let me just show you this is the point
that's being used
so they're actually pulling the slope
off like this
and we get 68.6
gigapascals all right
and then uh let's see what else
the yield strengths this particular case
the yield strength
this would be a 0.2 right so we'd have
to kind of follow
this curve up so we can keep the same
slope here
and then my intersection would be here
so this is looking like
it's uh well probably about 540
megapascals
or something for the yield strength
that's a rough estimate based on my free
handing here
all right
also if we wanted to take a look at the
strain
after fracture so we got the strain at
fracture which is this point
and then if we imagine unloading at that
the curve at that point and followed the
same
slope as our elastic modulus we get some
elastic recovery
and we could define then a plastic
strain
after fracture so the plastic strain
after fracture
is equal to the strain at fracture
minus hooke's law minus the elastic
strain that's recovered and that just
simply comes from
from hooke's law and that's what this
line here is it's just a plot of hooke's
law
and so we can put that in and we can
calculate
that this plastic strain after fracture
is 14.5 percent
and then here's an example the cast iron
you can see that
this is non-linear we don't have a
linear region on this
we can see that our strain is less than
1.2 percent so this would be considered
brittle anything less than about 5
percent
elongation to fracture is considered
brittle
and this particular one you can also see
well you can't see from this curve but
this doesn't go plastic it just
stays non-linear elastic and then we get
failure
fracture all right so let's go ahead
let me just one more word note the axes
just be careful this is in percent units
this one here was also in percent units
and this first one that we did is
dimensionless it's not in percent
okay so be careful of the axis for the
stream
all right so let's just compare the
three of those because we're going to
plot the stress straight curves
all in the same plot we start to get a
visual picture for what's
going on in these materials so you can
see right away that the steel
i think this is our steel
you can see that it has a lot of energy
under this curve so this whole shaded in
region
that's in here is an energy
it's a stress times strain
value and pascals if you convert
that unit you'll see that you'll get the
joules per centimeter cubed and so it's
a
energy per volume and that's what it
takes to
break that sample 130 joules
per centimeter cubed okay so that's a
fairly ductile material you can see the
strained fracture out here at 37
compared to say the aluminum case where
our strain is at 15.3 percent
but you can see this aluminum alloy
actually has very high strength
tensile strength as compared to the
steel case still has a
reasonable ductility measure or energy
to fracture
especially if we compare now to the
chaos to iron which is
all the way in here so anything
to the right of this five percent would
be considered brittle
and you can see in here at one point
two percent or so is the cast iron
all right all right so next time we'll
go ahead and take a look at the
hardness test